In this lesson, we'll begin editing one of the template pages to get to know the cadence controls and
focus on the header, too.
You'll learn how to edit the global header to improve the design so it works well on all pages of the
site by the end of this video.
You'll know how the Cadence Block editor adds a huge number of options to each block it controls on
a page and how the powerful header editing system is really full, say editing at its best.
Let's start customizing.
Here we are in the real estate starter template using the cadence theme, and the first thing that I
want you guys to do is follow along.
As we're customizing this so that you can experience it for yourself and learn where some of the controls
are for customizing cadence themes within WordPress.
First, let's go to this for 18 Norman Street, and I've noticed this happen with my own websites and
with this cadence theme in particular that there is supposed to be a featured image.
And in fact, it's a it's a three slide slider at the top of the page here.
And if we go into pages for 18 Norman Street, you might notice if this happens to you that there's
a block which contains unexpected or invalid content.
You can just attempt block recovery and then update the page that usually returns the block to its working
state.
And you can see that even within the Block editor here, this slideshow is working, and as it goes
from one to the next, let's just take a look at how that looks on the front end or on the real website
right here.
And one of the things you may notice is that the transparent background on the menu isn't working as
well as it could, especially on that first slide, which has a light colored image and the image is
very light at the very top.
So on that first slide, especially these white menu items and the logo are not as visible as they need
to be.
And so, you know, you might think, well, one thing we could do is just we could darken those images
just a little bit, and let's start there, just going back to the post itself.
Now remember that we have over here the list of you can show us kind of where we are and what we're
looking at with these blue surrounding borders around the different sections of the page that we're
editing.
And so this row layout itself is where this little slider lives.
And if we look at background settings, you can see that the center one background slider is the one
that's selected.
Now, of course, you can have a single image, a background slider or a video in there.
And now it's important that when we work with video that you don't have something that takes too long
to load, of course, and we can talk about that a little bit later.
But with this slider, I want to see if I can maybe darken up this image now instead of taking this
image out into Photoshop or Canva.
And, you know, darkening it and then re uploading it to the website.
One of the things that's available to us right here is a background overlay.
Now I can look at at normal under background overlay for this this row layout.
So it's basically this whole row side to side on the website.
The whole thing down to the bottom of the image is what we're editing right here.
And you can just click overlay color right now.
You can see by the gray and white check that it's just transparent.
But if you choose drag around until maybe to the bottom left color until I'm using that black color
and click away from it, you can see that the opacity is at 30 30 out of 100 100 would be all the way
black.
Zero is completely transparent, so I found that maybe for those menu items, something like 30 is quite
a good amount.
And now, if we wanted to do that just for this page, I just clicked.
Update, if we go back and refresh the page now you can see, Oh, that's that same very, very bright
image, and these are much more visible.
However, the rest of the photos are also quite dark, right?
So there's a different solution that I might offer up.
And you know, this is kind of a single page solution where, you know, you'd have to do a background
overlay on every page that was, you know, designed to be for one property in this website designed
for for real estate agent or real estate brokerage.
And so instead of doing this background overlay on the image, let's think about editing that header
a little bit.
So maybe instead of a completely transparent header, maybe we can put a.
Background overlay or just a slightly less transparent background on the header?
I think that's a good idea.
So let's just go ahead and change the overlay color here back and you can just hit this clear.
It's clear the customization settings that you've put on this setting, wherever you see that kind of
rounded, sort of recycle arrow, that's a go back arrow.
So it'll say, well, if you've made some changes, it gives you that option to go back to what it was
before.
And so everything's the same now that I hit the back arrow and I'll click Update.
So let's continue with this lesson and look at where we might be able to just go ahead and change the
header a little bit instead of just changing that post itself.
If we change the header, then it won't matter in the future, whether we have a very, very bright
image that covers or if we have a slightly darker image, it will work in either case.
So if we go back to the dashboard, let's exit out of this page by using the W WordPress logo at the
top left.
We're back to the page's editing screen, but now let's explore the customizer a little bit under appearance.
Customize is where you do a lot of your design work when you're using the cadence theme, and so it
shows you like like as in the page starter templates shows you an example of what the website looks
like while you're working on it here and before you have clicked the publish button, which is here
up at the top left.
Another thing that the customizer does for you is that when you're rolling over some content that's
editable from this screen, for example, in the header here you can see these little blue pencil icons.
These edit icons coming up whenever you see one of those pop up might actually work down here in the
footer as well.
When you do that, it will open up on the left side right where you need to go ahead and edit that content.
Now, of course, because this home page is editable, not here in the customizer, but as a page in
the dashboard of the website dashboard.
You know it doesn't show any of those blue edit buttons.
And so so we could go to header right here and that slides the header section open.
But we could have also gone up here and click here to get a header.
And now it actually went one level deeper where we're customizing the header, but we're customizing
the main row within the header.
And that's something to note in cadence when we're editing a header in the footer works this way too.
There are actually three different rows that are available to place content in when you're doing a header
or customizing or creating a header in the cadence theme.
And so this is where it's not technically WordPress full site editing in the real sense of the word
as far as WordPress defaults and the WordPress core software.
But really, cadence has added this functionality in the customizer so that really we're able to do
full site editing.
We don't have to use any code to change what the website header looks like.
And you can use these different places, as you know, containers for different content in the form
of blocks and different things you can put in the website through the cadence, theme and cadence blocks.
And so it's a super powerful kind of cadence version of full site editing.
And these days, because developers have been working on cadence for years and it really has some powerful
functionality at this point.
More powerful than the word press corps site at full site editing system.
And so let's continue.
You can always hit this back arrow to get back to one level up in terms of where you were editing.
So if I go one level up from header, you can see that I'm back to where I was and the header editor
down at the bottom of my screen has gone away.
And so one thing I mentioned, what we'll do in this last part of this particular lesson is just put
kind of a background transparency that's not perfectly transparent but has a little bit of color so
that no matter what image we have behind this, white lettering will show up nice, nice and bright
as the menu and logo and even the social icons over here inside every page of the website.
So I'll click header.
So here under a transparent header, I can leave enable transparent head.
Her.
Selected and under design, I can go back to you, Transparent had her background and begin to bring
that in.
You can see there it's it turned black.
And as I bring that transparency down to a point three, now you can see it's hard to see in this dark
background, but you can see that it's got that, you know, point three transparency.
And so we're that's where it's located under transparent head header under design.
And then the Transparent had her background color.
So if I click publish right here in the customizer, if I go back over to our 18 Norman Street post,
I can refresh the page.
And now you can see, even in that first slide, that transparent header has a little bit of dark to
it, but it still shows the image through makes that text really readable.
Another thing I'm noticing here is we've got this, you know, strange you URL that I didn't change
yet.
And that's one of the things that I'll often do is one of the first things that I change when I'm installing
a new WordPress site.
So let's just quickly go back and change that, and then we'll continue customizing this header.
So we'll go back and hit the X to get out of the customizer.
And if you go to settings and perma links, those are the permanent links.
It just came in as plain, but one of the best the really the best permalink structure for SEO and for
being found and also for user interface.
Ease of use for the user is to use post name.
So that really just makes it so that save changes there.
That makes it so that, you know, if we go to this site, will it change?
And now it actually uses the title of the post in the actual URL.
So that's better for Google and it's better for the user as well.
So changing that permalink.
Next, let's go ahead and continue to customize that header to make it look a little bit better, and
we'll go to the next settings that we'll learn in cadence.